# `plantify`

Welcome to the Plantify project, a Motoko-based smart contract designed to manage and interact with various types of tokens, specifically NFTs (Non-Fungible Tokens), within the Internet Computer ecosystem. This project integrates multiple token standards (ICRC7, ICRC37, and ICRC3) and provides functionalities for minting, transferring, approving, and querying tokens.

## Features

# Token Management:

- Minting new NFTs
- Transferring tokens between accounts
- Approving tokens for specific operations
- Revoking previously granted approvals

## State Management:

- Managing migration state for different token standards (ICRC7, ICRC37, ICRC3)
- Certification data management using CertTree

## Role-Based Access Control:

- Defining roles such as admin and authorized
- Checking permissions before allowing operations

## Querying Tokens:

- Fetching metadata of tokens
- Querying token ownership
- Paginated queries to fetch tokens in batches

## Environment Setup:

- Initializing the contract with default configurations
- Managing the canister's principal and providing the current time

## Documentation

To learn more before you start working with Plantify, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

# Getting Started

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd plantify/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor

## Contributing

1. Fork the Repository: Click the "Fork" button at the top right of this repository.
2. Clone the Repository: Clone your forked repository to your local machine.

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/your-username/plantify-backend.git
  cd plantify-backend
```

3, Create a New Branch: Create a new branch for your changes.

```bash
  git checkout -b improve-canister
```

4, Make a change: Apply your changes to the code

5, Commit Changes commit your changes with a descriptive message.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "update changes"
```

6, push changes: Push the changes to your forked repository.

```bash
git push origin improve-canister
```

7, create Pull Request: go to the original repository on github and create a pull request from your forked repository.

## License

## Acknowledgements

- DFINITY Foundation for the Internet Computer and Motoko language.
- Contributors and maintainers of the ICRC7, ICRC37, and ICRC3 standards.
